HHuCap: Extracting career patterns from text

How did career patterns in the Netherlands in the long nineteenth century look and how did they change? This question was recently studied (Schulz & Maas 2010, Schulz, Maas & Van Leeuwen, 2015) in the current period of broadening media attention of academic work on trends of economic and social inequality (e.g. Pikkety and Ganser 2014, Clark 2014, Van Zanden et al. 2014).
Our aim is to ‘replicate’ that study in order to see whether we can use texts as a new type of source in this field of research. Previous work focuses on linking events from vital records (e.g. marriage records). Linkage approaches are limited because many variables introduce linkage biases. This does not apply to biographies, but their manual analysis is time consuming. We circumvent this through Robust Semantic Parsing Tools (WP-3) in combination with Linked Data converters (WP-4) to extract career paths from approximately 35,000 biographies from the Biography Portal (BP; WP-2).
For four different time periods Figure [xxx avgcareers_byperiod.png xxx] shows the average career pattern. The horizontal axis shows the nth occupations (e.g. with your third job n = 3). On the y axis we see the HISCAM score, representing the relative position of an occupation to all other occupations, in other words how ‘high’ an occupation is.
These preliminary results are encouraging. The data are for or a longer time period available and provide more observations over the life course than the more commonly used vital records. Moreover, the known pattern of enhanced occupational positions at the beginning of one’s career, slowly decreasing over the life course, supporting the idea that with textual sources we are also able to derive career patterns. However, we are not yet able to explain the large size of different occupational observations and the increasing noise. We therefore now focus on the evaluation of our method, by comparing these results to manually annotated data. Please follow our endeavour on: https://github.com/CLARIAH/hhucap .
